Games lubricate the body and the mind.
 
He that won't be counseled can't be helped.
 
Hunger is the best pickle.
 
Write your injuries in dust, your benefits in marble.
 
If time be of all things the most precious, wasting time must be the greatest prodigality.
 
Observe all men, thyself most.
 
Remember that credit is money.
 
He that waits upon fortune, is never sure of a dinner.
 
When befriended, remember it; when you befriend, forget it.
 
He does not possess wealth; it possesses him.
 
Who is rich? He that rejoices in his portion.
 
Employ thy time well, if thou meanest to gain leisure.
 
God works wonders now and then; Behold a lawyer, an honest man.
 
He that has done you a kindness will be more ready to do you another, than he whom you yourself have obliged.
 
Human felicity is produced not as much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen as by little advantages that occur every day.
 
If you would have a faithful servant, and one that you like, serve yourself.
 
In general, mankind, since the improvement of cookery, eats twice as much as nature requires.
 
It is a grand mistake to think of being great without goodness and I pronounce it as certain that there was never a truly great man that was not at the same time truly virtuous.
 
It is much easier to suppress a first desire than to satisfy those that follow.
 
Never confuse motion with action.
 
No nation was ever ruined by trade.
 
Since thou are not sure of a minute, throw not away an hour.
 
The worst wheel of the cart makes the most noise.
 
Those that won't be counseled can't be helped.
 
Who had deceived thee so often as thyself?
 

Fatigue is the best pillow.
 
He that composes himself is wiser than he that composes a book.
 
He that's secure is not safe.
 
In the affairs of this world, men are saved not by faith, but by the want of it.
 
Many foxes grow gray but few grow good.
 
The eye of the master will do more work than both his hands.
 
The use of money is all the advantage there is in having it.
 
To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals.
 
Where sense is wanting, everything is wanting.
 
Nine men in ten are would be suicides.
 
The absent are never without fault, nor the present without excuse.
 
The art of acting consists in keeping people from coughing.
 
The discontented man finds no easy chair.
 
The first mistake in public business is the going into it.
 
Trouble springs from idleness, and grievous toil from needless ease.
 
Wealth is not his that has it, but his that enjoys it.
 
Industry need not wish.
 
Mine is better than ours.
 
Necessity never made a good bargain.
 
Our necessities never equal our wants.
 
Write injuries in dust, benefits in marble.

Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others.
 
He who falls in love with himself will have no rivals.
 
It is easier to prevent bad habits than to break them.
 
He that speaks much, is much mistaken.
 
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
 
Many a man thinks he is buying pleasure, when he is really selling himself to it.
 
Many people die at twenty five and aren't buried until they are seventy five.
 
The strictest law sometimes becomes the severest injustice.
 
And whether you're an honest man, or whether you're a thief, depends on whose solicitor has given me my brief.
 
If a man empties his purse into his head, no one can take it from him.
 
Never take a wife till thou hast a house (and a fire) to put her in.
 
Rather go to bed with out dinner than to rise in debt.
 
Savages we call them because their manners differ from ours.
 
When men and woman die, as poets sung, his heart's the last part moves, her last, the tongue.
 
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
 
If a man could have half of his wishes, he would double his troubles.
 
If we do not hang together, we shall surely hang separately.
 
Each year one vicious habit discarded, in time might make the worst of us good.
 
Hear reason, or she'll make you feel her.
 
There is no kind of dishonesty into which otherwise good people more easily and frequently fall than that of defrauding the government.
 
If you desire many things, many things will seem few.
 
There never was a truly great man that was not at the same time truly virtuous.
 
Tomorrow, every Fault is to be amended; but that Tomorrow never comes.
 
Who is rich? He that is content. Who is that? Nobody.
 
You can bear your own faults, and why not a fault in your wife?


They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.
 
The U. S. Constitution doesn't guarantee happiness, only the pursuit of it. You have to catch up with it yourself.
 
Wine is constant proof that God loves us and loves to see us happy.
 
We are all born ignorant, but one must work hard to remain stupid.
 
By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail.
 
Any fool can criticize, condemn and complain - and most fools do.
 
Three can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
 
Tell me and I forget. Teach me and I remember. Involve me and I learn.
 
The Constitution only gives people the right to pursue happiness. You have to catch it yourself.

An investment in knowledge pays the best interest.
 
Life's Tragedy is that we get old to soon and wise too late.
 
Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but far more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment.
 
Money has never made man happy, nor will it, there is nothing in its nature to produce happiness. The more of it one has the more one wants.
 
Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.
 
Be at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbors, and let every new year find you a better man.
 
Honesty is the best policy.
 
Do not fear mistakes. You will know failure. Continue to reach out.
 
Lost time is never found again.
 
Who is wise? He that learns from everyone. Who is powerful? He that governs his passions. Who is rich? He that is content. Who is that? Nobody.
 
Well done is better than well said.
 
I wake up every morning at nine and grab for the morning paper. Then I look at the obituary page. If my name is not on it, I get up.
 
A good conscience is a continual Christmas.
 
He that is good for making excuses is seldom good for anything else.
 
He that would live in peace and at ease must not speak all he knows or all he sees.
 
A house is not a home unless it contains food and fire for the mind as well as the body

All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are movable, and those that move.
 
Guests, like fish, begin to smell after three days.
 
He that can have patience can have what he will.
 
Tricks and treachery are the practice of fools, that don't have brains enough to be honest.
 
There are two ways of being happy: We must either diminish our wants or augment our means - either may do - the result is the same and it is for each man to decide for himself and to do that which happens to be easier.
 
Whatever is begun in anger ends in shame.
 
Wise men don't need advice. Fools won't take it.
 
Rebellion against tyrants is obedience to God.
 
Without continual growth and progress, such words as improvement, achievement, and success have no meaning.
 
A place for everything, everything in its place.
 
A penny saved is a penny earned.
 
Work as if you were to live a hundred years. Pray as if you were to die tomorrow.
 
A life of leisure and a life of laziness are two things. There will be sleeping enough in the grave.
 
A learned blockhead is a greater blockhead than an ignorant one.
 
How few there are who have courage enough to own their faults, or resolution enough to mend them.
 
It is the working man who is the happy man. It is the idle man who is the miserable man.
 
We must, indeed, all hang together or, most assuredly, we shall all hang separately.
 
A man wrapped up in himself makes a very small bundle.
 
It takes many good deeds to build a good reputation, and only one bad one to lose it.
 
Take time for all things: great haste makes great waste.
 
Being ignorant is not so much a shame, as being unwilling to learn.
 
Energy and persistence conquer all things.
 
Even peace may be purchased at too high a price.
 
Some people die at 25 and aren't buried until 75.
 
Time is money.
Your net worth to the world is usually determined by what remains after your bad habits are subtracted from your good ones.
 
A countryman between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats.
 
All who think cannot but see there is a sanction like that of religion which binds us in partnership in the serious work of the world.
 
He that is of the opinion money will do everything may well be suspected of doing everything for money.
 
You may delay, but time will not.
 
Content makes poor men rich; discontent makes rich men poor.
 
There are three faithful friends - an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
 
Half a truth is often a great lie.
 
Most people return small favors, acknowledge medium ones and repay greater ones - with ingratitude.

There are three things extremely hard: steel, a diamond, and to know one's self.
 
He that raises a large family does, indeed, while he lives to observe them, stand a broader mark for sorrow; but then he stands a broader mark for pleasure too.
 
The doorstep to the temple of wisdom is a knowledge of our own ignorance.
 
If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead, either write something worth reading or do things worth writing.
 
Be slow in choosing a friend, slower in changing.
 
For having lived long, I have experienced many instances of being obliged, by better information or fuller consideration, to change opinions, even on important subjects, which I once thought right but found to be otherwise.
 
I look upon death to be as necessary to our constitution as sleep. We shall rise refreshed in the morning.
 
A great empire, like a great cake, is most easily diminished at the edges.
 
I conceive that the great part of the miseries of mankind are brought upon them by false estimates they have made of the value of things.
 
I didn't fail the test, I just found 100 ways to do it wrong.
 
Marriage is the most natural state of man, and... the state in which you will find solid happiness.
 
If passion drives you, let reason hold the reins.
 
Words may show a man's wit but actions his meaning.
 
Never leave that till tomorrow which you can do today.
 
We are more thoroughly an enlightened people, with respect to our political interests, than perhaps any other under heaven. Every man among us reads, and is so easy in his circumstances as to have leisure for conversations of improvement and for acquiring information.
 
Distrust and caution are the parents of security.

Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of.
 
Anger is never without a reason, but seldom with a good one.
 
God helps those who help themselves.
 
If all printers were determined not to print anything till they were sure it would offend nobody, there would be very little printed.
 
Do good to your friends to keep them, to your enemies to win them.
 
In this world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes.
 
It is only when the rich are sick that they fully feel the impotence of wealth.
 
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
 
As we must account for every idle word, so must we account for every idle silence.
 
At twenty years of age the will reigns; at thirty, the wit; and at forty, the judgment.
 
One today is worth two tomorrows.
 
All wars are follies, very expensive and very mischievous ones.
 
To Follow by faith alone is to follow blindly.
 
If you know how to spend less than you get, you have the philosopher's stone.
 
Those who govern, having much business on their hands, do not generally like to take the trouble of considering and carrying into execution new projects. The best public measures are therefore seldom adopted from previous wisdom, but forced by the occasion.
 
To succeed, jump as quickly at opportunities as you do at conclusions.
 
Beware of little expenses. A small leak will sink a great ship.
 
If you would be loved, love, and be loveable.
 
When you're finished changing, you're finished.
 
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
 
Those disputing, contradicting, and confuting people are generally unfortunate in their affairs. They get victory, sometimes, but they never get good will, which would be of more use to them.
 
Where liberty is, there is my country.
 
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
 
Gain may be temporary and uncertain; but ever while you live, expense is constant and certain: and it is easier to build two chimneys than to keep one in fuel.

Having been poor is no shame, but being ashamed of it, is.

Hide not your talents. They for use were made. What's a sundial in the shade?
 
I guess I don't so much mind being old, as I mind being fat and old.
 
When in doubt, don't.
 
Genius without education is like silver in the mine.
 
He that displays too often his wife and his wallet is in danger of having both of them borrowed.
 
He that lives upon hope will die fasting.
 
It is the eye of other people that ruin us. If I were blind I would want, neither fine clothes, fine houses or fine furniture.
 
She laughs at everything you say. Why? Because she has fine teeth.
 
Speak ill of no man, but speak all the good you know of everybody.
 
Leisure is the time for doing something useful. This leisure the diligent person will obtain the lazy one never.
 
Wars are not paid for in wartime, the bill comes later.
 
Where there's marriage without love, there will be love without marriage.
 
Beware the hobby that eats.
 
The way to see by Faith is to shut the Eye of Reason.
 
Buy what thou hast no need of and ere long thou shalt sell thy necessities.
 
The doors of wisdom are never shut.
 
Applause waits on success.
 
Beauty and folly are old companions.
 
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other.
 
He that rises late must trot all day.
 
I saw few die of hunger; of eating, a hundred thousand.
 
I should have no objection to go over the same life from its beginning to the end: requesting only the advantage authors have, of correcting in a second edition the faults of the first.
 
If you would know the value of money, go and try to borrow some.
 
There was never a good war, or a bad peace.
 
When will mankind be convinced and agree to settle their difficulties by arbitration?

Being a singer is a natural gift. It means I'm using to the highest degree possible the gift that God gave me to use. I'm happy with that.
 
Falling out of love is like losing weight. It's a lot easier putting it on than taking it off.
 
And I was booked once to go on 'Ed Sullivan' and I got bumped and ran out the back door crying.
 
My faith always has been and always will be important to me.
 
Don't say Aretha is making a comeback, because I've never been away!
 
I always felt rock and roll was very, very wholesome music.
 
I saw the Supremes when they were still singing in little black skirts and white blouses.
 
I sing to the realists; people who accept it like it is.
 
I think the hardest thing is losing weight. That's the hardest thing more than anything else.
 
I'm a big woman. I need big hair.
 
I'm the lady next door when I'm not on stage.
 
I've never recorded anything I didn't like.
 
If a song's about something I've experienced or that could've happened to me it's good. But if it's alien to me, I couldn't lend anything to it. Because that's what soul is all about.
 
Let's start with the church. As you know, it's my background, it's a natural setting for me and it's definitely my roots.
 
Now, occasionally I will still have that quarter pounder because I love fast food, but you have to keep it to a minimum.
 
Yes, I've always been fashion conscious.

Better friends than lovers. Sugar can't you see? You need you and I really need me.	

 
I didn't know just what was wrong with me. Till your kiss helped me name it.	

 
Now I'm no longer doubtful of what I'm living for. Cause if I make you happy I don't need no more.	

 
Oh, baby, what you've done to me. You make me feel so good inside and I just want to be close to you. You make me fell so alive.	

 
The moment I wake up. Before I put on my makeup. I say a little prayer for you.	

 
And while combing my hair now, and wondering what dress to wear now, I say a little prayer for you.	

 
Forever, forever, you'll stay in my heart and I will love you. Forever, forever, we never will part. Oh, how I love you.	

 
Together, together, that's how it must be. To live without you. Would only mean heartbreak for me.	

 
I run for the bus, dear, while riding I think of us, dear, I say a little prayer for you.	

 
At work I just take time and all through my coffee break-time, I say a little prayer for you.

When my soul was in the lost-and-found. You came along to claim it.	

 
What you want. Baby, I got. What you need. Do you know I got it?	

 
All I'm askin' is for a little respect when you come home, just a little bit. Hey baby, just a little bit, when you get home. just a little bit, mister just a little bit.	

I ain't gonna do you wrong while you're gone. Ain't gonna do you wrong 'cause I don't wanna.	

I'm about to give you all of my money and all I'm askin' in return, honey. Is to give me my profits when you get home just a, just a, just a, just a. Yeah baby just a, just a, just a, just a. When you get home. just a little bit. Yeah just a little bit.	

 
Your kisses...Sweeter than honey and guess what? So is my money.	

 
All I want you to do for me. Is give it to me when you get home re, re, re ,re. Yeah baby re, re, re ,re. Whip it to me respect, just a little bit.	

R-E-S-P-E-C-T. Find out what it means to me. R-E-S-P-E-C-T. Take care, TCB.	

 
Looking out on the morning rain. I used to feel uninspired and when I knew I had to face another day.	

Lord, it made me feel so tired. Before the day I met you, life was so unkind but your love was the key to peace my mind.

Cause you make me feel, you make me feel, you make me feel like A natural woman.	

 
Being a singer is a natural gift. It means I'm using to the highest degree possible the gift that God gave me to use. I'm happy with that.	

 
Being a singer is a natural gift. It means I'm using to the highest degree possible the gift that God gave me to use. I'm happy with that.	

 
Don't say Aretha is making a comeback, because I've never been away!	

 
I always felt rock and roll was very, very wholesome music.	

 
I sing to the realists; people who accept it like it is.	
I
 think the hardest thing is losing weight. That's the hardest thing more than anything else.	

 
I'm a big woman. I need big hair.	

 
I'm the lady next door when I'm not on stage.	

 
If a song's about something I've experienced or that could've happened to me it's good. But if it's alien to me, I couldn't lend anything to it. Because that's what soul is all about.

My faith always has been and always will be important to me.	
 
I'm gonna make a gospel record and tell Jesus I cannot bear these burdens alone.