                                                           
                                             
Everyone wants to ride with you in the limo, but what you want is someone who will take the bus with you when the limo breaks down.
Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough.

The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.

Surround yourself with only people who are going to lift you higher.It isn't until you come to a spiritual understanding of who you are - not necessarily a religious feeling, but deep down, the spirit within - that you can begin to take control.

I am a woman in process. I'm just trying like everybody else. I try to take every conflict, every experience, and learn from it. Life is never dull.Passion is energy. Feel the power that comes from focusing on what excites you. Do the one thing you think you cannot do. Fail at it. Try again. Do better the second time. The only people who never tumble are those who never mount the high wire. This is your moment. Own it. The greatest discovery of all time is that a person can change his future by merely changing his attitude. Where there is no struggle, there is no strength. Breathe. Let go. And remind yourself that this very moment is the only one you know you have for sure. Real integrity is doing the right thing, knowing that nobody's going to know whether you did it or not.

Turn your wounds into wisdom. She is the mother I never had, she is the sister everybody would want. She is the friend that everybody deserves. I don't know a better person. Think like a queen. A queen is not afraid to fail. Failure is another steppingstone to greatness.I don't think of myself as a poor deprived ghetto girl who made good. I think of myself as somebody who from an early age knew I was responsible for myself, and I had to make good. As you become more clear about who you really are, you'll be better able to decide what is best for you - the first time around.The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.The struggle of my life created empathy - I could relate to pain, being abandoned, having people not love me.I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear. I don't think you ever stop giving. I really don't. I think it's an on-going process. And it's not just about being able to write a check. It's being able to touch somebody's life. What material success does is provide you with the ability to concentrate on other things that really matter. And that is being able to make a difference, not only in your own life, but in other people's lives.For everyone of us that succeeds, it's because there's somebody there to show you the way out. I don't believe in failure. It is not failure if you enjoyed the process.

Biology is the least of what makes someone a mother.


I have a lot of things to prove to myself. One is that I can live my life fearlessly.


Books were my pass to personal freedom. I learned to read at age three, and soon discovered there was a whole world to conquer that went beyond our farm in Mississippi.


I still have my feet on the ground, I just wear better shoes.


I had no idea that being your authentic self could make me as rich as I've become. If I had, I'd have done it a lot earlier.


My philosophy is that not only are you responsible for your life, but doing the best at this moment puts you I the best place for the next moment.



Doing the best at this moment puts you in the best place for the next moment.


The thing you fear most has no power. Your fear of it is what has the power. Facing the truth really will set you free.


I remember a specific moment, watching my grandmother hang the clothes on the line, and her saying to me, 'you are going to have to learn to do this,' and me being in that space of awareness and knowing that my life would not be the same as my grandmother's life.


I'm black, I don't feel burdened by it and I don't think it's a huge responsibility. It's part of who I am. It does not define me.


Understand that the right to choose your own path is a sacred privilege. Use it. Dwell in possibility.


So go ahead. Fall down. The world looks different from the ground.


I feel that luck is preparation meeting opportunity.


My idea of heaven is a great big baked potato and someone to share it with.


You CAN have it all. You just can't have it all at once.


What God intended for you goes far beyond anything you can imagine.


Excellence is the best deterrent to racism or sexism.


When I look into the future, it's so bright it burns my eyes.


If you want to accomplish the goals of your life, you have to begin with the spirit.


The whole point of being alive is to evolve into the complete person you were intended to be.


I was raised to believe that excellence is the best deterrent to racism or sexism. And that's how I operate my life.


You know you are on the road to success if you would do your job, and not be paid for it.


I always knew I was destined for greatness.


If you come to fame not understanding who you are, it will define who you are.

What I know is, is that if you do work that you love, and the work fulfills you, the rest will come.

I'm not even kind of a lesbian.


It does not matter how you came into the world, what matters is that you are here.


It's much easier for me to make major life, multi-million dollar decisions, than it is to decide on a carpet for my front porch. That's the truth.


I'm sick of people sittin' in chairs stating their problems. Then we roll the videotape... then we have our experts on the topic... I'm in the 'What's next?' phase of my career.


Unless you choose to do great things with it, it makes no difference how much you are rewarded, or how much power you have.


My first day in Chicago, September 4, 1983. I set foot in this city, and just walking down the street, it was like roots, like the motherland. I knew I belonged here.


What's in a name? That which we call a rose
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow
The lady doth protest too much
If music be the food of love, play on
All the world's a stage
To be, or not to be
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio
To sleep, perchance to dream
O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?
Such stuff as dreams are made on
Parting is such sweet sorrow
The winter of our discontent
What a piece of work is a man
Love looks not with the eyes but with the mind
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark
Out, damned spot
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars
Prodigious birth
All that glisters is not gold
Et tu, Brute?
Cowards die many times before their deaths
The play's the thing
Frailty, thy name is woman
What light through yonder window breaks?
My words fly up, my thoughts remain below
The course of true love never did run smooth
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears
Nothing can come of nothing
Alas, poor Yorick
We should be woo'd and were not made to woo
The quality of mercy is not strained
A plague on both your houses
Blow, blow, thou winter wind
Beware the ides of March
Fortune's fool
So wise so young, they say do never live long
Method in the madness
O, how this spring of love resembleth
O happy dagger!
We that are true lovers run into
The world's mine oyster
A lean and hungry look
Off with his head!
Hath not a Jew eyes?
How now? A rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Done to death by slanderous tongue
Why then tonight let us assay our plot
Thou art a votary to fond desire
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps
Be not afraid of greatness
Lord, what fools these mortals be
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie
I go, and it is done; the bell invites me
I follow him to serve my turn upon him
Is this a dagger which I see before me
I am dying, Egypt, dying
Come, let's away to prison; We two alone will sing
Get thee to a nunnery
Let every eye negotiate for itself
One that loved not wisely but too well
More matter with less art
Oft expectation fails, and most oft there
A horse, a horse! My kingdom for a horse!
And thus I clothe my naked villany
Eye of newt, and toe of frog
All the infections that the sun sucks up
Give me my robe, put on my crown
Journeys end in lovers meeting
When shall we three meet again
This thing of darkness
Asses are made to bear, and so are you
Think you I am no stronger than my sex
I am constant as the northern star
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
O, what men dare do!
That man that hath a tongue, I say is no man
Is whispering nothing?
Here's ado to lock up honesty
Now go we in content
The noblest Roman of them all
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
The man that hath no music in himself
When beggars die there are no comets seen
The green-eyed monster
O true apothecary!
The most unkindest cut of all
I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you
How poor are they that have not patience!
I come to wive it wealthily in Padua
What, my dear Lady Disdain! Are you yet living?
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano
What's gone and what's past help
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
When you do dance, I wish you
The be-all and the end-all
An improbable fiction
An itching palm
Antic disposition
To beggar description
Bated breath
A blinking idiot
Brave new world
Breathe life into a stone
Breathe one's last
Brevity is the soul of wit
Brief authority
Budge an inch
Something wicked this way comes
Cakes and ale
Caviar to the general
Chance may crown me
Chaos is come again
The crack of doom
Cruel to be kind
Cudgel thy brains
Dancing days
A dish fit for the gods
The dogs of war
Double, double toil and trouble
Every inch a king
The expense of spirit in a waste of shame
Fair play
A feast of languages
Flaming youth
As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods
For goodness' sake
Foregone conclusion
Full circle
Gilded monuments
The glass of fashion
Good riddance
I have a kind of alacrity in sinking
He hath eaten me out of house and home
He hath given his empire
He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf
Heart on my sleeve
Her infinite variety
A hit, a very palpable hit
Hob nob
Hoist with his own petard
Hold a mirror up to nature
Household words
How sharper than a serpent's tooth
Infirm of purpose
A king of infinite space
Knock, knock! Who's there?
Laid on with a trowel
Laugh oneself into stitches
Let Rome in Tiber melt
Let the world slip
Let's kill all the lawyers
Life's fitful fever
Light, seeking light, doth light of light beguile
A long farewell to all my greatness
Make mad the guilty, and appall the free
The makings of
The marriage of true minds
Masters of their fates
The milk of human kindness
A ministering anqel
More honored in the breach
More sinned against than sinning
More in sorrow than in anger
More than kin and less than kind
The multitudinous seas incarnadine
In my heart of hearts
In my mind's eye
Neither a borrower nor a lender be
Neither rhyme nor reason
I have no other but a woman's reason
Not that I lov'd Caesar less
Nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so
Nothing in his life became him like the leaving it
Once more unto the breach
One fell swoop
One may smile, and smile, and be a villain
A pair of star-crossed lovers
Passing strange
The patient must minister to himself
Pomp and circumstance
A pound of flesh
The primrose path
Put money in thy purse
A round unvarnished tale
Salad days
Screw your courage to the sticking place
The serpent's egg
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Short shrift
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more
It smells to heaven
A sorry sight
A spotless reputation
Sterner stuff
Strange bedfellows
Strive mightily
Sweet are the uses of adversity
So sweet was never so fatal
Sweets to the sweet
Swift as a shadow
Take physic, pomp
That way madness lies
That within which passes show
There is special providence in the fall of a sparrow
There is a tide in the affairs of men
There was never yet philosopher that could endure the toothache patiently
They did make love to this employment
To thine own self be true
Thinking too precisely on the event
A thousand times good night
Thrift, thrift, Horatio
The time is out of joint
'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed
Too much of a good thing
Touch of nature
A tower of strength
Trippingly on the tongue
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown
Unsex me here
Vale of years
Valiant dust
The vasty deep
Vaulting ambition
We came crying hither
We have seen better days
What the dickens
What's done is done
What's past is prologue
The whirligig of time
Who steals my purse steals trash
Why, that's my dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee
Wild-goose chase
On the windy side
The woman's part